Reviewer #1: This was a very interesting and detailed modeling study that integrated several ideas on resource allocation by microorganisms to extracellular enzymes that optimize growth and concomitant impacts on decomposition. The rationale for this study, selection of alternative models, and choice of basic simulation scenarios were logical and easy to follow. I had difficulties understanding some of the modeling details (some comments follow), so that clearer explanations would be helpful in some places. 

The general patterns of alternative model behaviors seemed reasonable, and explanations were largely insightful in both qualitative and semi-quantitative ways. Results demonstrated the utility of a composite microbial community approach rather than explicitly modeling multiple distinct groups (guilds?), i.e., capturing functional shifts in community behavior rather than changing compositional structure (and subsequent function) of the community. However, much of the output is speculative or blackboxed with limited validation, for example, were there any comparative observations of enzyme activities? Of course, the substrate pools were complex, containing both C and N resources, complicating the interpretation of empirical enzyme data.

I'm not sure that the Match strategy was used appropriately; it was apparently based on the EEZY model by Moorhead et al. (2012) and wasn't devised to operate as a decomposition model. It simply estimated the impacts of varying substrate qualities and microbial characteristics on enzyme allocation to balance microbial stoichiometry. The analytical solution to that problem (alpha) was its objective, and as Averill (2014) noted, doesn't maximize microbial growth or biomass. This limits its responsiveness in several dimensions, e.g., in the substrate-feedback experiment (lines 288-290). It will generate the smallest biomass of the strategies under any scenario in which C is limiting. Moreover, it doesn't consider inorganic N sources … did the authors revise the allocation routine in EEZY to compensate? See also Section 4.1: The Match strategy is not devised to address this issue. Averill (2014) addressed this limitation, noting that a microbial strategy emphasizing biomass
growth would generate different enzyme allocations. In essence, Averill's model has a similar rationale to SEAM in that maximized growth return per investment in enzymes albeit also using the EEZY solution to estimate alpha when C was not limiting. In any case, the current manuscript should reference the work by Averill (2014) as very similar in key respects

The hypothetical grazing impacts currently appear to be largely a post hoc rationalization for otherwise unknown turnover processes. If model behavior is substantially affected by this turnover, which appears to be true, then it deserves more attention, perhaps worthy of sensitivity analysis.

Minor issues:

I had trouble following the author's references to appendix materials. For example, the reference to A.7 on line 154 … where is A.7? Readers should not have to wonder.

Equation 3, if I interpret it correctly, applies the anabolic microbial efficiency (epsilon) as a constant for both substrates, which assumption should be mentioned because this is often variable across substrate qualities. Also, why is the maintenance respiration included within the parentheses of the numerator, so that epsilon applies to it?

Equation 4a seems to omit epsilon. If so, then why? Note that I am not R-savvy, so I am relying on others to review the code.

The Revenue strategy applies to the currently limiting nutrient, so either alpha C or N, is determined a priori. This is a clever way of scaling investments, but assumes that potential microbial growth could be reduced in the drive for greater efficiency. Is this reasonable?

If the turnover rate coefficient for enzymes is constant across enzymes (equations 6a,b), efficiency is actually a function of enzyme pool sizes rather than turnovers.

Line 188: Is the reference to table A.5 supposed to be A.1? 

Line 211: Was this maximum turnover 10 times per day as opposed to Table A.1 which has 2-5 per year? That's rapid, but maybe plausible if it represents a tiny fraction of SOC stocks. So what's the thinking?

Section 2.5. By this point in the manuscript, the reason for such a calibration study is difficult to remember. Perhaps mentioning that the Perveen et al. (2014) study provides a validation of your model would be useful to remind readers.

Line 316: Does this statement mean that the microbial N-use strategy simply made more N available for plant uptake? 

A stronger explanation and/or justification for using only the Revenue strategy for pasture simulations to compare to the Laqueuille data would be reasonable.

Incorporating SEAM as a direct, interactive component of ESMs seems unlikely, given the differences in scale. However, results could be used to generate simpler, phenomenological links between key drivers and microbial responses that could be included more empirically, such as the recent work by Xu et al. (2014). A recent rationale for this type of approach was published by Todd-Brown et al. (2012) that might be worth mentioning.

Suggested references:

Averill 2014 Divergence in plant and microbial allocation strategies explains continental patterns in microbial allocation and biogeochemical fluxes. Ecology Letters 17:1202-1210. doi: 10.1111/ele.12324

Todd-Brown et al. 2012. A framework for representing microbial decomposition in coupled climate models. Biogeochemistry 109:19-33. Doi 10.1007/s10533-011-9635-6

Xu, X, et al. 2014. Substrate and environmental controls on microbial assimilation of soil organic carbon: a framework for Earth system models. Ecology Letters 15:547-555. doi:10.1111ele. 12254




Reviewer #2: The authors of the manuscript "Adaptation of microbial resource allocation affects modeled long term soil organic matter and nutrient cycling" present a very interesting modelling approach which integrates microbial regulation of C and N turnover. This approach is designed for application in large-scale models, which is of particular importance if we want to reduce the uncertainty in model predictions of land atmosphere feedbacks. The manuscript, therefore, fits well into the scope of SBB, is well written, sound and will be of big interest for modelers, but also for soil ecologists who are interested in microbial regulation of soil processes and how this regulation could be integrated into modelling. Still, I have some issues which need revision before the manuscript could be accepted for publication in SBB. Most of the issues are related to model assumptions and explanation of the modeling approach. Improvements of these issues would foster the impact and
understandability of this paper, particularly in the soil ecologists community.

Specific comments
L 39-51	As I understand it, the two alternatives here are similar to the alternatives 2 and 3 in the paragraph L 10-26. I was first confused about which alternative you are talking about in your objectives. I, therefore, suggest avoidung this redundancy.
Figure 1	What is the difference between fluxes and mass fluxes? From my point of view DOM and CO2 are also pools (here they are presented as disks and therefore as fluxes). Later on you talk about the DOM pool. Why do the arrows with white arrow heads have dashed line, do they really represent N fluxes? TVR is not explained (turnover?). Please comment on this and change accordingly if necessary.
L 94-95	How could additional N be mineralized if the C/N ratio of the decomposition flux is equal and fixed to the C/N ratio of the respective pool? What is then the source of additional N? Please comment on this and better explain already here.
Table 1	inorganic N input is about 230 kg N ha-1, which would be an intensively fertilized arable soil. In unfertilized grassland or a forest soil atmospheric deposition would be about 20-40 kg N ha-1. Maybe it becomes clearer in you examples, but I suggest explaining this high value here to avoid confusion.
L 108 Do you mean "inorganic nitrogen pool"?
L 124	I have some problems with the term "organic N limitation" and the hierarchy of limitations you are presenting here. It suggests that all microbes first take up organic N and if this is not available in sufficient amounts they take up mineral N. However, there are extracellular enzymes which release ammonia from organic compounds, which only makes sense if the microbes producing these enzymes prefer taking up mineral nitrogen. Therefore, introducing these terms is o.k. for the purpose of modelling in this study, but the introduction as general terms may induce more confusion than clarity. I, therefore, suggest restricting these terms to this study and presenting them as a new, general terminology.
L 171-172	If the investment is equal to the turnover, how could the microbes then change the size of the enzyme pool? What exactly is meant with "...ensure that...is proportional to its revenue"? Does this mean that enzyme synthesis is not further increased if the ratio return:investment is decreasing with additional enzymes? I suggest that you better explain the revenue strategy, particularly because this seems to be the most promising model alternative.
Equation 6a and b	I don't understand why E*S is included in these equations. I thought that the return comes from the decomposition of the pools L and R and not from the decomposition of the enzyme pool E*S? Please explain.
L 199-200/Table A5	How could it be that the C/N ratio of the microbial biomass is higher than that of the microbial residues, if the C/N ratio of a decomposition flux is the same as the C/N ratio of the decomposed pool? Is it because microbial residues are mixed in the pool R with inactive enzymes which have a low C/N ratio? Still, the assumed C/N ratio of 11 for the microbial biomass is very high and is usually between 6 and 8. Please explain this high value for microbial C/N ratios. Why is the C/N ratio of the litter calibrated if this could easily be measured? Please explain.
L 201	Name of this experiment differs from Table 4.
L 205-211	What is the temporal resolution of the models and how are the yearly litter inputs distributed across the year? It surely makes a difference if the 30gC are evenly distributed across lets say 365 days and the addition of 50gC is on one of these 365 days or if the temporal resolution is a year and the yearly input simply increases from 30gC to 80gC in one of the 10 years. Providing this information would help the reader to better understand the simulation experiments and their outcomes.
L 210	Was this assumption valid for the additional litter input or also for the yearly litter input of 30? Please add this information.
L 212-213	continuous litter C input is also expected under ambient CO2 concentrations if you include rhizodeposition as litter input. But the size of the input will be increased. Please clarify.
L 232	In table 1 a literature value for N input is given. Why is this value taken from the literature if you used a well investigated ecosystem where the N inputs are surely known? For initial litter and SOM pools you used observed values (L 238). Please explain.
L 262	What is meant with balanced growth if the microbial biomass was decreasing? Please explain.
L 265	What is meant with "did not need stoichiometric imbalance fluxes"? I guess this is related to the upper left panel of figure 3, which is poorly explained (What is Min lmb?). If positive values mean that there is a net flow from organic sources into the mineral N pool, than there is an imbalance flow, isn't it? It is not "needed", but it is there.  At C/N ratios higher than ~27 this flux turns into negative values. They stay above -0.1, but is this relevant or not? The wording seems to be not accurate enough in this case and I suggest that you better describe what exactly you are meaning. Otherwise it is sometime hard to follow your ideas.
L 286-270	This sentence is poorly connected to the paragraph. What is the reasoning of this sentence since you did not simulate the performance of different microbes? I suggest deleting this sentence.
L 279 What is meant with "composition flux"? Please explain.
L 301-302	In figure 5 it does not become clear, which N mineralization flux is meant. Here you write about the mineralization flux derived from microbial turnover, but there is also the N mineralization flux from the turnover of the DOM pool. This has to be clearly indicated in figure 5.
L 322	I wonder why the model was only compared with the measurements of one year. In Perveen et al 2014 it seems that there data available for at least five years. A good fit to a time series of measurements would increase the confidence into your model. Please comment on this.
Figure 8	dR is positive meaning that SOM is build up. Doesn't this mean that the grassland is not in equilibrium? How the change rate of the SOM was exactly measured in the field? Please explain.
L 375	I suggest being carefully with the statement that such microbes would be outcompeted. You did no simulation including both strategies at the same time. Allsion 2005 showed in theoretical simulations that even microbes without any enzyme production could coexist with enzyme producing microbes.
L 382 "..the the..."
L 400	"N-degrading enzymes" is misleading here, because you simulated the enzyme pool degrading the N-rich pool R, but you did not explicitly simulated N-degrading enzymes.
L 500-501 Although the best argument would be the comparison with measured data from long-term field experiments.
L 566	Is this really the case? It is probably a fair assumption for modelling the whole community. However, considering several subpopulations, we have to assume that each subpopulation tries to optimize biomass production, which could be on the expense of the growth of other subpopulations resulting in a lower overall microbial biomass.
